CYBER DAILY — 2026-10-01 13:34 UTC
Publication window: last 24 hours (day precision for CISA KEV).
18 entries selected. Feed excerpts, not full-article or AI analysis.
Publication dates do not establish when an attack occurred. Research may describe older events.

CVE-2026-76504: Cisco Catalyst SD-WAN Manager Hex Encoding Vulnerability
CISA KEV | Known exploitation / catalog addition | 2026-09-30T00:00:00+00:00
Cisco Catalyst SD-WAN Manager contains a hex encoding vulnerability that could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to access an affected system with privileges of the admin user due to improper handling of URI encoding in an HTTP request. Required action: Apply mitigations in accordance with vendor instructions, ensuring compliance with CISA’s BOD 26-04 Prioritizing Security Updates Based on Risk (see URL in Notes) guidance and CISA’s “Forensics Triage Requirements” (see URL in Notes). Follow applicable BOD 26-04 guidance for cloud services or discontinue use of the product if mitigations are unavailable. Stakeholders are responsible for evaluating each asset's internet exposure and ensuring adherence to BOD 26-04 patching guidelines. Catalog addition date is not the attack date.
CVEs: CVE-2026-76504
Fabricante: Cisco
Producto: Catalyst SD-WAN Manager
Acción requerida: Apply mitigations in accordance with vendor instructions, ensuring compliance with CISA’s BOD 26-04 Prioritizing Security Updates Based on Risk (see URL in Notes) guidance and CISA’s “Forensics Triage Requirements” (see URL in Notes). Follow applicable BOD 26-04 guidance for cloud services or discontinue use of the product if mitigations are unavailable. Stakeholders are responsible for evaluating each asset's internet exposure and ensuring adherence to BOD 26-04 patching guidelines.
Fecha límite indicada por CISA: 2026-10-03
Uso conocido en ransomware: Unknown
Notas de CISA: https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-sdwan-webauth-xr8beuuU ; ; BOD 26-04: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/directives/bod-26-04-prioritizing-security-updates-based-risk ; Forensics Triage Requirements: https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/directives/bod-26-04-implementation-guidance-prioritizing-security-updates-based-risk ; https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-76504
https://www.cisa.gov/known-exploited-vulnerabilities-catalog?search_api_fulltext=CVE-2026-76504

ScreenConnect Client (Ab)used by Attackers, (Thu, Oct 1st)
SANS Internet Storm Center | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T05:32:13+00:00
Threat Actors do not always use top-notch techniques or very complex malware to perform their attacks. Sometimes, they just abuse of existing applications...
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://isc.sans.edu/diary/rss/33388

ISC Stormcast For Thursday, October 1st, 2026 https://isc.sans.edu/podcastdetail/10118, (Thu, Oct 1st)
SANS Internet Storm Center | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T02:00:02+00:00
No feed summary supplied. Open the original source for details.
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://isc.sans.edu/diary/rss/33386

The Fine Art of Frustrating the Adversary
Cisco Talos | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T10:00:05+00:00
For Cybersecurity Awareness Month, eight Cisco Talos researchers share practical ways defenders can frustrate adversaries at different stages of an operation. Deception techniques such as honeypot accounts, false infrastructure, and tarpits can slow adversaries down while giving defenders earlier opportunities to detect their activity. Behavioral detections, tighter control of legitimate remote-management tools, and clear boundaries around AI agents can make essential adversary actions more visible and easier to interrupt. Breaking dependencies between stages of an operation can prevent an adversary from reaching their next objective. Years ago, Cisco Talos blocked an adversary’s command-and-control (C2) traffic. The adversary responded by tweeting, “Write a rule for your a**.” A fine endorsement of our work, if I’ve ever heard one. Talos loves to see an adversary forced to change course. And if every alternative for them is slower, less stealthy, less reliable and more expensive? Chef’s kiss. Adversaries rely on certain advantages. They look for environments where tools and infrastructure allow them to blend in with normal activity. They also look for employees who can be pressured into acting before they have time to think. Strong cybersecurity defenses can change those conditions. They take away adversary choices and increase the risk attached to essential actions, forcing them to keep making new decisions. Each change of plan costs them time and resources, and may eventually cause them to give up and move to another target. It also creates more opportunities for defenders to spot what they are doing. For Cybersecurity Awareness Month, we’re exploring “the fine art of frustrating the adversary.” To kick us off, I asked researchers across Talos, covering all aspects of the attack chain, for the strongest recommendation they could give defenders to seriously frustrate a potential adversary in their environment, and what that action would prevent the adversary from doing next. Take away their choices Many adversaries use techniques that succeed against a large number of organizations. This makes a lot of economic sense: An operation that depends on every potential target having an unusual configuration will not scale particularly well. But it also creates an opportunity for defenders. “By being unique and setting things up a little differently, you may be able to better defend your environment when they come knocking,” Pierre says. For example, organizations can restrict which accounts are permitted to sign into their most critical servers, alert on connection attempts from unauthorized users, and closely monitor any changes to those restrictions. Different credentials or authentication methods can be required for particularly sensitive systems, while protected enclaves can provide increased monitoring around critical infrastructure. Pierre also recommends that defenders “monitor (and alert) for any changes to administrative users or administrative groups.” Of course, no amount of security measures makes an organization impenetrable, but they can make the common methods adversaries use much less dependable. Deception can push that uncertainty even further. “Affecting the attack earlier rather than later in the attack chain is best,” Martin says. “Better to stop an attack from happening than minimize the consequences after it has happened.” Martin suggests creating honeypot email accounts using expired domains with addresses that have previously leaked, or developing fictional employee profiles and seeding their addresses in places where spammers and other adversaries are likely to discover them. Because these accounts have no legitimate users, messages sent to them can be treated with far greater suspicion. The activity can provide early tactical intelligence about malicious infrastructure, lures, and campaigns, allowing defenders to put protections in place before the same operation reaches genuine employees. Martin signed off with this note: “Have fun creating some fake employees and executives.” Nick sees a similar role for tarpits and other forms of deception. “False servers, shares, user accounts and network space can all be used to confuse and slow down the attacker while providing opportunities for the defender to detect them,” he says. The same principle is beginning to appear in attempts to slow automated systems. “We’ve even seen some new movement in the tarpit space for slowing down AI by throwing huge amounts of incoherent text at scrapers to slow them down,” Nick explains. Deception gives the adversary another problem: they can no longer be certain that what they have found is useful, or even real. Plus, it can be a lot of fun. Detect what they cannot avoid “Attackers have enormous flexibility in how they operate, but far less flexibility in what they ultimately need to accomplish,” Ryan says. “Good detection engineering exploits that asymmetry.” Consider an adversary attempting to obtain privileged credentials. They might use Mimikatz, comsvcs.dll , direct access to LSASS memory, a custom utility or another implementation entirely. A detection focused too narrowly on one tool can be bypassed simply by replacing it. A detection built around the underlying attempt to access credential material leaves considerably less room to maneuver. According to Ryan, creating resilient behavioral detections requires defenders to: Identify the adversary techniques that would have the greatest impact in their environment Understand the different procedures an adversary could use to perform them; Find the behaviors that remain consistent when the tooling, syntax, or implementation changes Build analytics that account for techniques such as encoding, transformation, and obfuscation This is more involved than matching a known tool or indicator. It requires suitable telemetry, knowledge of normal activity in the organization, and detection engineering that reflects how adversaries operate in practice. “If done right, it forces an attacker into a dilemma: either abandon the objective, choose a noisier/less reliable path, or execute the action and risk detection,” Ryan says. “It is the highest leverage investment for defenders as well, because behavior-based detection is tool-agnostic.” Ryan also points out that organizations do not need to begin from scratch. MITRE ATT&CK provides a useful taxonomy of adversary techniques, while projects such as MITRE Center for Threat-Informed Defense’s Summiting the Pyramid , SpecterOps’ work on capability abstraction , Splunk SURGe’s Macro ATT&CK , and Cisco Foundation AI’s LUCID explore different parts of this challenge. Control the tools they hope to use Sometimes the most useful tool available to an adversary is one that already has a legitimate purpose within the target environment. Remote monitoring and management (RMM) tools are a good example. Organizations use RMM software to administer systems and maintain remote access. Ransomware operators can use the same capabilities to establish persistence and interact with compromised systems before encryption. “These are good tools that are being used for bad, making them not good in your environment but not bad for everyone,” Michael says. “So are they good or not good? Well, that depends on your specific environment.” Warlock ransomware, for example, has used Zoho Unattended Agent. The tool can provide a remote technician with elevated permissions even when the signed-in user is not an administrator, offering the adversary persistence and a relatively benign-looking route to greater privileges. Defenders can frustrate this activity by first inventorying the RMM products that are genuinely authorized in their environment. Application allowlisting can then permit those approved products while blocking (or producing high-confidence alerts for) unapproved tools such as AnyDesk, ScreenConnect, or Atera. Controls can be enforced through technologies such as Windows Defender Application Control, AppLocker, or endpoint detection and response (EDR) platforms. Removing access to a familiar RMM product forces the adversary to establish persistence or C2 another way. That change does not guarantee that the operation ends, but it creates friction and another chance to detect the activity before the ransomware encryptor is deployed. Slow them down “Attackers use urgency to create panic and to try and trick users into making bad decisions in the heat of the moment,” says Doug. Email, text message, and in-person scams frequently manufacture that urgency. A bill must be cancelled immediately. An executive stranded overseas needs help now. A child has been injured and the recipient must call the number in the message. The adversary always wants you to act first and think later. From a social engineering perspective, Doug recommends considering which events in your work or personal life would genuinely require you to drop everything and respond immediately. For most people, that list should be relatively short. Then consider how you would realistically expect to learn about each situation, what action you might need to take and how you could independently verify that it was real. “If you messed up your taxes, you probably don’t expect to get a single email from the IRS, and you almost certainly don’t expect the IRS needs gift cards or other forms of payment,” Doug says. If a text claimed that your child had been injured at school, you could call the number you already have for the school rather than relying on the contact details supplied in the message. Doug recommends thinking through genuine emergencies in advance to make it easier to recognize when someone is trying to manufacture one. It also provides a verification route that does not depend on trusting the message itself. Make every agent session identifiable and interruptible As organizations increasingly introduce AI agents with access to tools and applications across connected systems, defenders need to know which agent is responsible for each action, and be able to stop it. “The best way to frustrate an agentic adversary is to make every agent session identifiable, restricted, and interruptible,” David says. A recent Anthropic report described four real-world incidents involving Claude in evaluation environments. The organizations involved were not named, but the incidents shared a common weakness: the environments had inadvertently been given internet access. These were not conventional adversary operations and the agents had not been directed to behave maliciously. Their significance lies in what happened once the agents began operating beyond their intended boundaries. The reported activity crossed trusted services, relays, and short-lived infrastructure before reaching cloud metadata, Kubernetes, VPN, source-control, and data-staging systems. An agent capable of adapting its behavior can change destinations, reuse public services, and connect information or systems in ways its operators did not anticipate. “A simple IP or domain blocklist would not have been enough,” David says. Instead, David recommends that each agent run should have its own identity and short-lived credentials, with traffic routed through an independent gateway. Access to cloud metadata, Kubernetes interfaces, and other sensitive systems should be blocked unless the agent genuinely requires it. Defenders should also look for actions that indicate an agent is moving beyond its intended role, including: Unexpected writes to package registries, datasets, wikis, paste sites, or file-sharing services Repository creation, dataset commits, and unusual API operations Calls to Kubernetes APIs, VPN services and DNS-over-HTTPS relays Public services being used as C2 channels or dead drops Credential discovery followed by activity across cloud accounts or source-control platforms Rapid destination changes, DNS pinning, short-lived egress identities, and unusual bursts of traffic These controls constrain what happens after an agent takes an unexpected action. Giving each session a traceable identity makes its behavior easier to attribute. Allowlisting limits where it can go. Independent gateways provide a place to observe and stop the activity. “This is practical today,” David says. “It makes the agent’s next move slower, louder, and much easier to stop.” Break up their route Conventional malware operations also depend on connections that may be hidden inside services an organization would not ordinarily consider malicious. An attack chain can involve multiple tools and pieces of infrastructure. Somewhere within it may be a dependency that connects one stage to the next. “I cannot say with certainty which action is most effective at frustrating an adversary, but I would imagine it is discovering a dependency in the chain that, once blocked, cannot be easily replaced,” Vanja says. Vanja encountered this while analyzing two attack chains that used the Amatera information stealer as their primary payload. In the first, the adversary used a page hosted on the legitimate Telegra.ph publishing platform to conceal the location of its C2 server. This technique, known as a C2 dead-drop resolver, allows an adversary to place C2 information on a popular legitimate service that web-filtering systems may be less inclined to block or inspect closely. Once defenders identify and block the particular page containing that information, the handoff is interrupted. Amatera might already be running on the endpoint, but if it cannot determine where its C2 server is, it cannot receive collection instructions or download additional payloads. The second chain used the same primary payload but included different secondary payloads, among them the cryptocurrency stealer ZigCryptoStealer. This malware stored its C2 domain in the metadata of a BNB Smart Chain contract — an approach commonly known as EtherHiding. Blocking one contract does not stop an adversary from deploying another. It does break the existing operation and force them to spend time and money rebuilding part of their infrastructure. The appropriate response depends on how the organization uses the underlying service. Known malicious domains and URLs can generally be blocked through DNS filtering, secure web gateways, proxies, or firewalls. Published indicators can also be added to existing security tools. Contract-specific blocking is more complicated because defenders need visibility into blockchain remote procedure call requests and a means of distinguishing one contract from other traffic. If the organization has no legitimate requirement to access public blockchain or RPC infrastructure, blocking it may be the simpler option. Where the technology is required, defenders can allow approved services and monitor access to known contracts. The main requirements are visibility, timely threat intelligence, and the ability to turn that intelligence into enforcement rules. Even partial disruption can increase the cost and complexity of the operation. “It is particularly satisfying when a single point of failure is identified because it forces a threat actor to re-establish infrastructure, which can take time and money,” Vanja says. “In other words, the simpler the mitigation, the more satisfied we can be.” Keep them on their toes No single action in this article will frustrate every adversary or stop every attack, nor will every recommendation be equally appropriate for every environment. But the common pattern is the same: Make the adversary’s next move harder, riskier, or less reliable. If you can get them to swear at you on Twitter, even better. It comes down to setting your environment up to detect the behaviors that their objectives require. Know when a tool is being used for something it shouldn’t be. Slow down the moments designed to make people panic. Give every agent session an identity, boundaries, and a reliable off switch. Find the dependencies connecting one stage of an operation to the next. Frustrating an adversary means making them find another account, another tool, another route, another piece of infrastructure, or another way to make someone act. Eventually, the easier target may be somewhere else. For more insights into current cybercrime behavior, take a listen of this episode of Beers with Talos:
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/the-fine-art-of-frustrating-the-adversary/

​​Secure what’s next: Your guide to Microsoft Security at Microsoft Ignite 2026
Microsoft Security | Research / advisory | 2026-09-30T19:31:00+00:00
In this article Why you should attend Microsoft Ignite Make the most of your time at Microsoft Ignite Explore the Security sessions at Microsoft Ignite 2026 Build your schedule In the agentic era, the stakes are higher: AI agents now act with real access to your identities, your data, and your cloud, so every adoption decision is a trust decision. That is why security is a through line at Microsoft Ignite 2026, from a Security Pre-Day before the event opens to a security segment in the keynote, and four security themes across all four days. Join us in San Francisco from November 17 to 20, 2026 , or online. See the Microsoft Security roadmap first, get hands-on with new agentic security solutions, and connect directly with the experts, partners, and peers who can help you make it real. This year we spotlight our AI-first, end-to-end security platform designed to protect identities, devices, data, applications, clouds, infrastructure, and the AI agents now working alongside your teams. Register for Microsoft Ignite 2026 Why you should attend Microsoft Ignite Understand where Microsoft is placing its bets . See what is being announced, what is shipping next, and what it means for your architecture, your security operations center (SOC), and your governance model. Build skills you can use immediately . Technical breakouts run from level 200 to level 400, paired with instructor-led labs and onsite certifications, so you leave with implementation guidance rather than slideware. Pressure-test your plans with the people who built it . Bring your real architecture, deployment, and roadmap questions to Microsoft engineers, MVPs, and the product teams behind these tools. See the proof, not the promise . Customer stories, live demos, and partner solutions show what is already working in production today. Connect with the people who make it real . Expert meetups, connection pods, table talks, and evening events put you alongside security practitioners, leaders, Microsoft partners, and peers working the same problems. Make the most of your time at Microsoft Ignite Whether you join us in San Francisco or online, you will have access to a full slate of experiences designed to help you connect, learn, and grow as a security professional. Here is what is in store. Start a day early at the Security Pre-Day On Monday, November 16, 2026, from 1:00 PM PT to 5:00 PM PT, the Security Pre-Day gives you four hours with Microsoft Security leaders and external industry voices before the main event begins. Expect presentations paired with interactive roundtables and ask-me-anythings (AMAs) with our security experts, built for security decision makers and practitioners alike. Select the Security Pre-Day option during Microsoft Ignite registration. Hear the news first in the keynote and Innovation Session The opening keynote runs Tuesday, November 17, 2026, from 10:00 AM PT to 12:00 PM PT at Chase Center and sets the direction for the week with Satya Nadella, Microsoft CEO, and Judson Althoff. Later in the week, the Security Innovation Session goes deeper on the security news with executive-led demos. Where the security community comes together Microsoft Ignite is where the security community gathers. Beyond the sessions, you will find expert meetups, connection pods, and evening experiences created for security professionals and leaders. Secure the Night You are invited to Secure the Night on Tuesday, November 17, 2026, an evening bringing the security community together to connect, celebrate, and have some fun. Join fellow customers and Microsoft Security leaders for a night designed to make meaningful connections. Interested in attending? Fill out the interest form to be notified when registration goes live. Security and Agent 365 Neighborhood at Microsoft Hub Bring your hardest questions to the people who build and defend with these products every day. Microsoft engineers, MVPs, and partners staff the Hub throughout the week. Experience hands-on demo, participate in community conversations and happy hours with industry experts. Also check out our Security Insider podcast recorded real time. Partners and the Microsoft Intelligent Security Association Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA) members have a full week ahead at Microsoft Ignite. Beyond the partner-focused security sessions running throughout the event, the MISA Demo Station returns to the Expert Meetup Hub from November 17 to 19, 2026, where members will demo their solutions with customers on the show floor. Thank you to our MISA partners Ascent Solutions, Avertium, BlueVoyant, Devicie, Huntress, Illumio, Mphasis, and RSM who are sponsoring the Microsoft Secure the Night party, each hosting an interactive activation on the party floor, and the week wraps with an exclusive MISA Happy Hour on November 19, 2026—a chance for MISA partners to network with fellow members and select Microsoft Security stakeholders. For information on registration for the MISA Happy Hour, please reach out to your dedicated MISA representative. Explore the Security sessions at Microsoft Ignite 2026 Below are the four themes shaping this year’s Security track, along with a few sessions you will not want to miss. You can view the full catalog here and filter by topic, format, and role to plan your week. Here is an overview of the Security tracks with some highlights of our top sessions. Defend with AI Security operations are being rebuilt around agents. This track covers what changes when AI can not only analyze but act, and how the SOC’s operating model, data foundation, and response playbooks have to evolve to keep pace. Sessions to watch for The Alert Is Dead. The Blueprint for the Agentic SOC , which maps what replaces alert-centric operations end to end. The Agentic SOC Reality Check: Market Hype vs. AI Models vs. Automation , a real-time architectural breakdown with no slides and no canned speeches. Winning the Race Against Time with Autonomous Protection , on how AI is changing the economics of cyberattacks and how to compress your response window. Turn signal into real-time protections with Project Perception , a hands-on lab in agentic security. Also in this track: threat intelligence at AI speed, AI-powered endpoint vulnerability discovery and remediation, attack disruption, finding and fixing code vulnerabilities with codename MDASH, and building the security data foundation the agentic SOC runs on. Secure AI Your organization is already shipping agents. This track is about seeing them, governing them, and protecting them from code to runtime, across the identities they use and the data they touch. Sessions to watch for When AI acts, security has to answer: Microsoft Security for AI , the platform view of securing agentic AI. Inside look: Microsoft Security as customer zero for Agent 365 , covering what we learned running it ourselves. Local agents are here. Can you find and secure them? , paired with a companion lab on end-to-end threat protection for local agents. AI Agents Are Scaling. Are Your Access Controls Ready? , a peer discussion on identity for non-human actors. Also in this track: prioritizing and remediating your riskiest agents, a Zero Trust approach to securing AI runtime with Microsoft Defender , data protection and governance for agents with Microsoft Purview , securing Microsoft 365 Copilot and Cowork, and turning AI security research into deployable defenses. Get Ready for AI Before you scale AI, the fundamentals have to hold: identity, device and app trust, data hygiene, exposure management, and Zero Trust. This track is the practitioner’s path to an AI-ready security foundation. Sessions to watch for Build secure foundations to scale AI across your organization , the anchor session for this track. Identity Knows What Your SOC Doesn’t: Stop Threats Faster Together , on closing the gap between identity and security operations. Can’t Phish a Passkey. But Can You Prove Who’s Behind It? and SMS MFA Is Dead. What Comes Next? , a pair on the state of phishing-resistant authentication. Zero Trust for AI workshop , a hands-on lab with a companion lightning talk, Apply Zero Trust for AI: the practitioner’s shortlist. Insights from Microsoft’s journey to prepare its data for AI adoption , on what it actually took internally. Also in this track: reducing exposure across your digital estate, a single policy model for humans and agents, protecting cloud and container applications from code to runtime, getting privileged access right, and getting more out of the E5 you already own. Secure Data Data is the substrate AI runs on, and the thing cyberattackers are after. This track is about discovering, classifying, and protecting sensitive data across clouds, devices, AI apps, and agents. Sessions to watch for Microsoft Purview: Build the Trusted Data Foundation for AI , the place to start. Strengthen and Manage Data Security Posture with Microsoft Purview , on data security posture management in practice. Deploy Copilot with confidence: Find and protect exposed sensitive data , a hands-on lab to run before you turn Copilot loose. Microsoft Purview AMA: Preparing Your Data for Secure AI , where you can bring your questions to the product team. Also in this track: closing exfiltration gaps with data loss prevention, and turning global regulatory requirements into operating controls. Choose the session format that fits how you learn Breakout sessions run 45 minutes at level 200 to 400, led by experts with live demos and real architecture. They are the technical core of the Security track. Theater sessions are 25 minutes of fast, demo-driven content in the Hub, designed to show rather than tell. Lightning talks are 15 minutes in intimate mini-theaters, built for curiosity, questions, and quick insight. Table talks are 45-minute, small-group technical discussions on real-world challenges and trade-offs, moderated by Microsoft subject matter experts. Hands-on labs are 75 minutes, instructor-led and proctor-supported, in a live environment. RSVP is required and labs fill fast. Build your schedule Do not miss your chance to be part of Microsoft Ignite. Explore the full session catalog , filter by topic, format, and role to plan your week, and register today to connect with the global security community and get hands-on with the latest innovations. Register now for Microsoft Ignite 2026 To learn more about Microsoft Security solutions, visit our website. Bookmark the Security blog to keep up with our expert coverage on security matters. Also, follow us on LinkedIn ( Microsoft Security ) and X ( @MSFTSecurity ) for the latest news and updates on cybersecurity. The post ​​Secure what’s next: Your guide to Microsoft Security at Microsoft Ignite 2026 appeared first on Microsoft Security Blog .
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2026/09/30/secure-whats-next-your-guide-to-microsoft-security-at-microsoft-ignite-2026/

Unauthenticated command injection on internet-facing mail servers: tracking CVE-2026-73570
Microsoft Security | Research / advisory | 2026-09-30T14:00:00+00:00
In this article Attack chain overview Mitigation and protection guidance References Learn More Microsoft Threat Intelligence identified and tracked exploitation of CVE-2026-73570 , an unauthenticated OS command injection vulnerability in the Zimbra Collaboration Suite SNMP notification path. Exploitation can be triggered by a specially crafted email against internet-facing Zimbra servers when the optional zimbra-snmp package is installed and SNMP notifications are enabled, without requiring authentication or user interaction. Following successful exploitation, observed activity included deployment of JSP web shells and reverse shells, privilege escalation, persistent remote-access tooling, and memory-backed execution. Threat actors also accessed email and collected authentication and mailbox data, with archive creation and subsequent transfer activity observed. The activity included both automated payload delivery and hands-on-keyboard operations on compromised mail servers. Microsoft observed affected organizations in more than one region and industry. Based on the environments investigated, exploitation was not limited to a single sector or geographic area. The diagram combines behaviors observed across multiple confirmed compromises; no single host necessarily exhibited every stage. From remediation to public disclosure CVE-2026-73570 is an unauthenticated OS command-injection vulnerability in the Zimbra Collaboration Suite SNMP notification path. An attacker can send a specially crafted SMTP request that introduces untrusted input into SNMP notification processing. If the input is not sufficiently sanitized, embedded shell commands can execute with the privileges of the zimbra service account. Exploitation requires the optional zimbra-snmp package to be installed and SNMP notifications to be enabled. Zimbra version 10.1.20, released July 20, 2026, contains the relevant remediation. CVE-2026-73570 was publicly disclosed on August 13, 2026. Microsoft telemetry identified activity targeting the same injection path during the interval between those events. Attack chain overview Figure 1. CVE-2026-73570 attack chain, mapped to MITRE ATT&CK tactics and composited across all confirmed compromises. Pre-disclosure reconnaissance and pre-exploitation probing Between July 28 and August 7, after a fix became available on July 20 but before public disclosure on August 13, Microsoft observed two distinct out-of-band scanning tools probing the vulnerable injection point. The activity used the same swatchdog-to-snmptrap execution path later observed during exploitation. The operators first validated command execution using lightweight out-of-band probes to unique subdomains hosted on public interaction and collaborator services, including oast[.]fun, oast[.]online, dnslog[.]pp[.]ua, requestrepo[.]com, and campaign-associated infrastructure under bypass[.]eu[.]org. The probes included HTTP requests and DNS, ICMP, and in-band identity checks, using commands such as curl, wget, ping, nslookup, and id. HTTP requests used the CVE-specific ZB73570 User-Agent, while DNS and ICMP requests used randomized callback subdomains. The probes were designed to confirm execution without delivering a payload by performing local identity checks or dropping a small system fingerprint script, demonstrating both command execution and external access to the server’s webroot. Figure 2. Out-of-band command-execution validation using HTTP, DNS, and ICMP callbacks to unique collaborator subdomains. Initial access CVE-2026-73570 allows a crafted SMTP request containing shell metacharacters to reach Zimbra’s SNMP notification processing. When a service-state change triggers health monitoring, swatchdog incorporates the attacker-controlled value into a snmptrap shell invocation, enabling command execution. Figure 3. CVE-2026-73570 command-injection sequence that changes webroot permissions, reconstructs encoded fragments, and deploys a JSP webshell. Figure 4. JSP webshell artifacts placement across Zimbra application and servlet-work directories. Figure 5. Remote content retrieved with wget or curl and piped to a shell for execution. Exploitation of the Zimbra vulnerability provided attackers with direct command execution as the zimbra service account. In observed cases, attackers used this access to deploy JSP webshells by changing webroot permissions, reconstructing an encoded and compressed payload from staged fragments, and writing the decoded payload to publicly accessible application directories. The staging fragments were then removed, leaving the webshell available for subsequent HTTP-based access. Attackers also used the initial command execution to download and execute content directly through wget or curl, launch background processes, and establish interactive reverse shells. Other execution chains used cron, systemd, or memfd_create to maintain recurring or memory-backed execution. Multiple JSP webshells were deployed across Jetty and mailboxd application paths, including additional copies on peer mailbox nodes. This provided alternative access paths across different Zimbra configurations and reduced reliance on a single webshell. In some cases, attackers temporarily enabled write access to a public directory to deploy the webshell and then restored the directory permissions, limiting the visibility of the change during basic permission checks. Reconnaissance — Cluster mapping and environment discovery The actor first mapped the Zimbra deployment using zmprov to identify mailbox and MTA nodes. This provided an overview of the server roles within the environment and helped identify systems of interest for subsequent activity. The actor also checked for the presence of the Zimbra SSH identity, likely to determine whether existing administrative trust could enable movement between Zimbra hosts. In parallel, DNS-based callbacks were used to transmit environment details, including mailbox-server counts and other host-specific information. Figure 6. Cluster-aware reconnaissance using Zimbra provisioning commands to enumerate mailbox and MTA nodes and test administrative SSH trust. Application and host persistence Microsoft observed a privilege-escalation technique that abused Zimbra’s legitimate, sudo-authorized service helpers and the interaction between zmmailboxdmgr, its writable log directory, the sudo PAM configuration, pam_exec, and zmstat-fd. The attacker first verified that the server exposed the required Zimbra helpers and that the mailbox manager’s log directory was writable. They then backed up /etc/pam.d/sudo, replaced the legitimate zmmailboxd.out log with a symlink to the PAM configuration, and invoked the privileged zmmailboxdmgr process. This caused the PAM file to become owned by the zimbra service account, allowing the attacker to modify it. The attacker added a pam_exec session hook that invoked a local script, then triggered a sudo session through the legitimate zmstat-fd helper. The hook executed as root and created a NOPASSWD: ALL entry for the zimbra account, providing unrestricted sudo access. The attacker subsequently restored the original PAM content and removed temporary files and other staging artifacts, while retaining the newly created sudoers entry. The resulting root access was confirmed through subsequent passwordless sudo operations, including system configuration and file ownership changes. The controller also contained fallback paths involving Postfix, a Java agent, zmstat-fd, and nginx; however, the observed child processes indicate that the mailbox-manager/PAM path was the escalation technique successfully exercised on this server. Figure 7. Privilege-escalation sequence using a writable Zimbra log path, zmstat-fd, pam_exec, and a sudoers entry for the zimbra account. A second persistence mechanism was established through a systemd service named zimlog.service. The name was consistent with a Zimbra logging component, but the payload was manually installed in /etc/systemd/system/, outside the Zimbra application directories. The service file was moved from /tmp into the system-wide systemd directory using sudo and assigned to the Zimbra service account. Its timestamps were then modified to match existing systemd services, including rsync.service and sshd.service. The service was enabled with systemctl enable, establishing execution at system boot, and its status was subsequently checked. Figure 8. Disguised zimlog.service systemd unit installed for host persistence and timestomped to resemble an older file. Zimbra service credential and authentication-key collection The actor targeted Zimbra’s centralized service and authentication secrets rather than individual mailbox passwords. The zmlocalconfig -s command exposed credentials used by LDAP, MySQL, Postfix, Amavis, and replication services. The actor then used the recovered credentials for authenticated LDAP queries that retrieved high-value attributes, including zimbraPreAuthKey, zimbraAuthTokenKey, and zimbraTwoFactorAuthSecret. Portions of the collected data were compressed into hidden archives. Figure 9. Zimbra credential and authentication-secret discovery, including service credentials, token material, and preauthentication keys. The combined zmlocalconfig -s and authenticated ldapsearch sequence was observed across multiple compromised Zimbra servers. A separate credential-dumping malware family observed in another affected environment extended this tactic by collecting Zimbra configuration credentials and authentication material through an automated backdoor. Lateral movement across the Zimbra cluster The observed activity used Zimbra’s existing SSH identity at /opt/zimbra/.ssh/zimbra_identity to access other trusted nodes in the cluster. SSH was invoked in noninteractive mode with host-key verification disabled, enabling automated connections between peer systems. rsync was then used to move staged payload fragments, helper scripts, and JSP webshells between nodes. The transfer workflow included validation of the received fragments and removal of source files after transfer, supporting payload reconstruction on the destination while reducing artifacts left on the originating system. This activity enabled the same tooling and webshells to be deployed across multiple Zimbra nodes, extending access beyond the initially compromised host. Figure 10. Lateral movement across trusted Zimbra cluster nodes using the existing zimbra SSH identity and rsync-based artifact transfer. Command and control The actor used HTTP and HTTPS callbacks to validate command execution, retrieve payloads, and return command output. DNS-label callbacks provided an additional channel for execution confirmation and limited host-data transfer. The observed activity established a reverse shell using standard Linux utilities. A named pipe at /tmp/s was used to connect an interactive /bin/sh session to openssl s_client, which maintained an encrypted connection to a remote endpoint. This allowed commands received over the connection to be passed to the shell and their output returned through the same channel. Figure 11. Command-and-control activity using an OpenSSL-encrypted reverse shell to attacker-controlled infrastructure. Remote-access agents and Zimbra Implants In one campaign, the attackers used a multi-stage payload chain beginning with agent2.sh, a lightweight shell downloader that retrieved Stage 1 malware from a dynamic DNS domain and staged it within Zimbra’s log-directory structure. The same chain was observed across multiple hosts in separate environments. The downloaded zimdown2 Go binary acted as an installer for the final zimclient2 remote-access agent. It retrieved and verified the agent using its SHA-256 hash, supported multiple download methods, and reported installation status over a separate WebSocket channel. It also selected writable installation paths and runtime-generated filenames based on the host environment. The final zimclient2 payload was a full remote-access agent providing interactive shell access, bidirectional file operations, and SOCKS5 proxying. It supported WebSocket, TLS, and raw TCP transports, providing resilient remote access and potential network pivoting through compromised Zimbra servers. Evidence identified several persistence mechanisms associated with the payload, including systemd services, OpenRC, cron, shell startup files, SSH authorized keys, and local account creation: Persistence mechanism Evidence Systemd Unit files, daemon-reload, enable, and start OpenRC /etc/init.d/ scripts, rc-update, rc-service Cron /etc/cron.d/, crontab, @reboot, and scheduled entries Shell startup /etc/profile, /etc/bashrc, .bash_profile, .zprofile SSH keys .ssh/authorized_keys creation or modification Local accounts useradd, adduser, and password-setting activity Zimbra Credential and Mailbox Exfiltration-Attempt Implant The observed activity also included Zimbra-specific payloads. In one case, a Go executable contained the embedded module path zimbra-exfil/client-dump, indicating that it was specifically designed to operate against Zimbra Collaboration Suite installations. The payload was intended to run under the Zimbra service account, which has broad read access across the Zimbra installation. Figure 12. zimbra-exfil client-dump binary workflow for reading localconfig.xml and extracting Zimbra service-account credentials. Upon execution, the binary reads /opt/zimbra/conf/localconfig.xml – Zimbra’s primary configuration file and extracts a defined set of service account credentials including mysql_root_password, zimbra_mysql_password, ldap_root_password, zimbra_ldap_password, ldap_postfix_password, ldap_amavis_password, ldap_nginx_password, ldap_replication_password, and ldap_bes_searcher_password . These values are then populated to construct pre-formatted MySQL and LDAP connection strings to the local Zimbra MySQL instance via Unix socket and exports full table contents from mailbox, mailbox_metadata, mobile_devices, and out_of_office , along with all tables under the zimbra.* namespace. Figure 13. Automated export of Zimbra mailbox, metadata, mobile-device, out-of-office, and related database content using recovered credentials. A dedicated function, identified in analysis as dumpSecrets , handles collection from both the local filesystem and the LDAP directory service. From the filesystem, the binary stages SSL certificate and private key files and Postfix LDAP configuration files. From the LDAP directory, the binary performs authenticated queries targeting specific attributes of significant sensitivity. The zimbraAuthTokenKey attribute, retrieved from cn=config,cn=zimbra, is the key material Zimbra uses to sign user session tokens across the platform; access to this value enables session token generation for arbitrary accounts without requiring account credentials. The pre-authentication key allows construction of pre-authenticated login URLs for any user account. The full collection breakdown is as follows: Figure 14. Credential, certificate, LDAP secret, mail-rule, and configuration artifacts collected and staged by the Zimbra exfiltration-attempt implant. Collected files are staged in a timestamped working directory under /tmp/zimbra_dump_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS/, compressed into a ZIP archive, and prepared for attempted transfer to a remote endpoint whose address is supplied as a hex-encoded command-line argument. Collection and exfiltration attempt On one compromised Zimbra server, the actor archived recent mailbox-backup content into /opt/zimbra/final.tar.gz. The actor then downloaded AzCopy from hxxps://aka[.]ms/downloadazcopy-v10-linux and invoked it with an operator-supplied Azure Blob SAS URL targeting wsweb03[.]blob[.]core[.]windows[.]net/log/windows.log. This activity shows mailbox-data collection, local archive staging, and an exfiltration attempt using cloud-storage tooling; available evidence does not confirm that the transfer completed successfully. Figure 15. Mailbox-backup collection staged as /opt/zimbra/final.tar.gz and transferred with AzCopy to Azure Blob. Mitigation and protection guidance Microsoft Defender surfaced malicious activity across every observed attack path. A tactical detector built for the SNMP command-injection pattern recognized every confirmed exploitation event while operating in evaluation mode. Independently of that detector, Microsoft Defender Antivirus detected and quarantined Chopper, GodzillaWebShell, CoinMiner, Looptik, SuspGoLang, and Dirtelti payloads, and behavioral protection alerted on suspicious permission changes, background execution, dropped-and-launched files, anonymous memfd_create execution, and reverse-shell activity. Endpoint detection and response telemetry preserved the process lineage, network connections, and file activity used to reconstruct the attack paths, and Advanced Hunting pivots across process lineage, command-and-control infrastructure, file hashes, and the S3-hosted dropper URL expanded a ten-day seed query into a fleet-wide hunt across the full advanced hunting retention window, identifying additional affected hosts. Patch and reduce exposure Patch immediately. Upgrade all Zimbra Collaboration Suite instances to version 10.1.20 or later, which remediates CVE-2026-73570. Mitigate where patching must wait. Uninstall the optional zimbra-snmp package, disable SNMP notifications, and restrict SNMP and SMTP access to trusted hosts only. 2. Scope and contain Treat reverse-shell alerts on internet-facing mail servers as priority incidents. A confirmed reverse-shell connection indicates attacker access even when no payload is quarantined, making rapid scoping, containment, and credential review essential. Do not rely solely on named-malware detections. Several of the most consequential outcomes in this campaign, including full mail-store staging for an exfiltration attempt, involved no malware family at all, only a plain interactive shell. 3. Rotate secrets and review persistence Rotate Zimbra authentication secrets and inspect system services. Rotate all domain zimbraPreAuthKey values and review systemd units for unexpected ownership, enablement, or timestamp changes, including units that resemble Zimbra or operating-system logging components. Hunt for redundant webshell persistence. I nspect active Zimbra application directories and servlet work directories across every mailbox node for unexpected JSP files, generated *_jsp.java or compiled servlet artifacts, and recent permission changes on publicly served directories. Do not assume that removing one known JSP eliminates access. Limit the blast radius of mail-server service accounts. Where feasible, confine them with namespace, seccomp, or AppArmor controls to reduce the impact of any future command-injection-class vulnerability in the mail stack. 4. Deploy and verify Microsoft Defender protections Enable Microsoft Defender for Endpoint protections on Linux servers. Real-time protection, behavior monitoring, and endpoint detection and response telemetry work together to quarantine malicious payloads, surface suspicious behaviors, preserve evidence for investigation, and support proactive hunting. 5. Hunt for related activity Look for the injection signature itself. A legitimate snmptrap invocation immediately followed by shell metacharacters and a wget or curl call, wrapped in a trailing ‘#’ comment that swallows the remaining legitimate arguments. Hunt beyond the advanced hunting window. Microsoft Defender XDR advanced hunting retains 30 days of raw event data, which no longer covers the pre-disclosure reconnaissance and early exploitation described here. For activity older than that window, search the second-stage infrastructure listed in the appendix in Microsoft Sentinel or archived logs, and pivot every recovered indicator across the entire device fleet rather than only the hosts that triggered an initial alert. Tactic Observed activity Microsoft Defender coverage Initial Access Exploitation of an unauthenticated command-injection vulnerability in a Zimbra service-monitoring component (CVE-2026-73570), enabling remote command execution without credentials. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Exploit:Linux/SnmpTrapCmdInject.A Possible CVE-2026-73570 vulnerability exploitation Execution A second-stage payload is retrieved over HTTP using standard download utilities with fallbacks, then launched as a detached background process. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Trojan:Linux/ShellDropper.AA HackTool:Linux/SuspFetchExecFallback.A Suspicious command execution via Java application Suspicious file dropped and launched Process launched in the background Suspicious piped command launched Persistence Write access is granted to a Zimbra web-application directory, and a base64/gzip-encoded payload is decoded directly into a .jsp file inside it. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Exploit:Linux/SnmpTrapJspDrop.A Privilege Escalation A symbolic link is created into the system’s PAM configuration directory (/etc/pam.d/) in conjunction with the Zimbra mailbox process (zmmailboxd). Microsoft Defender for Endpoint HackTool:Linux/ZimbraPLE.A Suspicious execution of elevated process Possible post-exploitation activity on a Zimbra mail server Defense Evasion The payload checks for specific legitimate processes before proceeding, disguises itself under trusted system component names, removes staging artifacts, and terminates competing malicious processes. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Trojan:Linux/FakeSysResolved.AA HackTool:Linux/SuspKworkerMasqStage.A Trojan:Linux/SuspKworkerImplant.B Trojan:Linux/FakeChronydMiner.A Suspicious file or information obfuscation detected Suspicious anonymous process created using memfd_create Suspicious timestamp modification Credential Access A dropped JSP tool reads Zimbra’s local config file for LDAP/admin credentials and self-deletes afterward; companion tools invoke Zimbra’s zmlocalconfig utility and craft ldapsearch queries against admin accounts and Zimbra-specific password/auth-token attributes. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Backdoor:Java/ConfigCredDumper.A HackTool:Linux/ZimbraLeakSecreat.A HackTool:Linux/ZimbraSuspLDAP.A Enumeration of files with sensitive data Possible post-exploitation activity on a Zimbra mail server Command and Control Backdoor components communicate over web-based channels disguised as mail-server traffic on dynamically-resolved domains, with a follow-on stage using separate infrastructure. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Backdoor:Linux/FakeZimDownloader.A Backdoor:Linux/FakeZimClient.A Possible reverse shell Suspicious communication with a remote target Suspicious file or content ingress Microsoft Security Copilot Microsoft Security Copilot is embedded in Microsoft Defender and provides security teams with AI-powered capabilities to summarize incidents, analyze files and scripts, summarize identities, use guided responses, and generate device summaries, hunting queries, and incident reports. Security Copilot customers can also use the standalone experience to create their own prompts or run prebuilt promptbooks to automate investigation and response tasks related to this activity: Incident investigation: correlate the snmptrap injection, dropper execution, privilege escalation, persistence, and outbound C2 signals on an affected mail server into a single timeline. Script and file analysis: summarize the behavior of recovered dropper scripts and stripped Go binaries, including the downloader fallbacks, masquerade filenames, and persistence mechanisms they select at runtime. Device summary: assess whether a mail server that triggered a reverse-shell or memfd_create alert shows further staging, persistence, or beacon activity. Vulnerability impact assessment: identify internet-facing Zimbra Collaboration Suite hosts still running a version earlier than 10.1.20. Microsoft Defender XDR Microsoft Defender XDR customers can run the following behavior-based queries to identify confirmed exploitation and post-exploitation activity associated with CVE-2026-73570 on Linux Zimbra servers. The queries intentionally avoid incomplete static IOC lists and use public Device* tables. Tune results for approved Zimbra maintenance and administrative activity. The queries cover the confirmed SNMP command-injection boundary, suspicious Zimbra web-shell writes and Java-launched native shells, memory-backed execution, persistence and privilege-escalation artifacts, DNS callbacks, and collection or cloud-transfer activity. A command, file operation, or connection must be interpreted according to the evidence it actually provides; it does not automatically prove every downstream outcome. Advanced hunting queries Confirmed shell-mediated Zimbra SNMP command injection This query identifies the high-confidence exploitation boundary where Perl running a generated Zimbra swatchdog script creates a Unix shell containing the SNMP command and shell grammar inside the service value. A match confirms shell-mediated command execution; nested payload outcomes require separate evidence. let lookback = 30d; DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where FileName in~ ("sh", "bash", "dash") | where InitiatingProcessFileName =~ "perl" | where InitiatingProcessCommandLine contains ".swatchdog_script" | extend Cmd = tolower(ProcessCommandLine) | where Cmd contains "snmptrap" | where Cmd matches regex @"(^|\s)-c(\s|$)" | where Cmd matches regex @"::zmservicename\s+s\s+.*[;&| < >`$].*\s+\S+-mib::zmservicestatus" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, AccountName, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, ProcessId, ProcessCreationTime, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessFolderPath, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessId, InitiatingProcessCreationTime, SHA1, SHA256, ReportId | order by Timestamp desc; Suspicious JSP writes in Zimbra webroots This query identifies JSP or generated JSP-source writes in Zimbra web application and servlet-work directories when the initiating process is associated with shell execution, transfer, decoding, Java, jspawnhelper, Perl, or the SNMP injection path. Review each result to distinguish deployment from later activation. let lookback = 30d; DeviceFileEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where FileName endswith ".jsp" or FileName endswith "_jsp.java" | where FolderPath contains "/jetty_base/webapps/" or FolderPath contains "/jetty/webapps/" or FolderPath contains "/mailboxd/webapps/" or FolderPath contains "/work/zimbra/jsp/" | where InitiatingProcessFileName in~ ("sh", "bash", "dash", "curl", "wget", "tee", "base64", "rsync", "java", "jspawnhelper", "perl") or InitiatingProcessCommandLine contains "snmptrap" or InitiatingProcessCommandLine contains "Runtime.getRuntime().exec" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, ActionType, FolderPath, FileName, SHA1, SHA256, InitiatingProcessAccountName, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessFolderPath, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, ReportId | order by Timestamp desc; Zimbra Java or jspawnhelper launching native shells This query finds native shells, FIFO creation, and OpenSSL execution launched by Zimbra Java or jspawnhelper context. These events can reveal web-shell or application-mediated native command execution, including reverse-shell behavior. let lookback = 30d; DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where FileName in~ ("sh", "bash", "dash", "mkfifo", "openssl") | where InitiatingProcessFileName in~ ("java", "jspawnhelper") or InitiatingProcessFolderPath contains "/opt/zimbra/" | where ProcessCommandLine contains " -c " or ProcessCommandLine contains " -i" or ProcessCommandLine contains "mkfifo" or ProcessCommandLine contains "s_client" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, AccountName, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, ProcessId, ProcessCreationTime, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessFolderPath, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessId, InitiatingProcessCreationTime, ReportId | order by Timestamp desc; Campaign-context anonymous memory-backed execution This query finds anonymous memfd or file-descriptor-backed process execution only when Zimbra exploit ancestry or known campaign process context is present. It identifies memory-backed execution behavior, not the exact syscall or process injection. let lookback = 30d; DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | extend FullPath = strcat(FolderPath, "/", FileName) | where FileName startswith "memfd:" or FullPath contains "/memfd:" or FullPath startswith "/proc/self/fd/" or ProcessCommandLine contains "/proc/self/fd/" | where InitiatingProcessCommandLine contains ".swatchdog_script" or InitiatingProcessCommandLine contains "snmptrap" or ProcessCommandLine has_any (".kworker_sys", ".lpe_core", "softwaretech", "ksmd", "/tmp/init", "/dev/shm/systemd-resolved", "chronyd-helper.service", "syslog_init.service") or InitiatingProcessCommandLine has_any (".kworker_sys", ".lpe_core", "softwaretech", "ksmd", "/tmp/init", "/dev/shm/systemd-resolved") | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, AccountName, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, ProcessId, ProcessCreationTime, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessFolderPath, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessId, InitiatingProcessCreationTime, SHA1, SHA256, ReportId | order by Timestamp desc; Zimbra persistence and privilege-escalation artifacts This query combines process and file evidence for the systemd units, pre-authentication changes, PAM/sudo manipulation, and related artifacts observed in the investigation. Commands and file events must be correlated with runtime evidence before claiming durable persistence or successful privilege escalation. let lookback = 30d; union ( DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where ProcessCommandLine contains "zimlog.service" or ProcessCommandLine contains "chronyd-helper.service" or ProcessCommandLine contains "syslog_init.service" or ProcessCommandLine contains "zimbraPreAuthKey" or ProcessCommandLine contains "pam_exec" or ProcessCommandLine contains "zmstat-fd" or ProcessCommandLine contains "/etc/sudoers.d/81_metric" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, EvidenceType="Process", ActionType, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, ReportId ), ( DeviceFileEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where FileName in~ ("zimlog.service", "chronyd-helper.service", "syslog_init.service", "81_metric") or FolderPath == "/etc/pam.d" or FolderPath == "/etc/sudoers.d" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, EvidenceType="File", ActionType, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine=InitiatingProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, ReportId ) | order by Timestamp desc; DNS and out-of-band callbacks from the Zimbra injection path This query finds nslookup, dig, host, or ping callback commands executed through the confirmed Zimbra swatchdog and SNMP shell lineage. It remains useful when callback domains rotate because it detects the behavior rather than a static domain list. let lookback = 30d; DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where FileName in~ ("sh", "bash", "dash") | where InitiatingProcessFileName =~ "perl" | where InitiatingProcessCommandLine contains ".swatchdog_script" | extend Cmd = tolower(ProcessCommandLine) | where Cmd contains "snmptrap" | where Cmd matches regex @"(^|\s)-c(\s|$)" | where Cmd has_any ("nslookup", "dig", "host", "ping") | where Cmd contains "zmservicename" and Cmd contains "zmservicestatus" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, AccountName, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, ProcessId, ProcessCreationTime, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessFolderPath, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessId, InitiatingProcessCreationTime, ReportId | order by Timestamp desc; Zimbra collection, archive staging, and cloud-transfer invocation This query identifies Zimbra LDAP export, archive creation and staging, and AzCopy invocation associated with collection activity. Archive creation and transfer invocation do not by themselves prove that exfiltration completed. let lookback = 30d; DeviceProcessEvents | where Timestamp > ago(lookback) | where FileName in~ ("zmslapcat", "slapcat", "tar", "gzip", "find", "wget", "curl", "azcopy", "bash", "sh", "nohup") | where ProcessCommandLine contains "zmslapcat" or ProcessCommandLine contains "/opt/zimbra/backup/" or ProcessCommandLine contains "/opt/zimbra/final.tar.gz" or ProcessCommandLine contains "downloadazcopy-v10-linux" or ProcessCommandLine contains "azcopy copy" or ProcessCommandLine contains "HISTFILE=/dev/null" | project Timestamp, DeviceId, DeviceName, AccountName, FileName, FolderPath, ProcessCommandLine, ProcessId, ProcessCreationTime, SHA1, SHA256, InitiatingProcessFileName, InitiatingProcessFolderPath, InitiatingProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessId, InitiatingProcessCreationTime, ReportId | order by Timestamp desc; MITRE ATT&CK techniques observed Tactic Technique Observed activity Reconnaissance T1595.002 Active Scanning: Vulnerability Scanning Canary subdomains in ping and nslookup callbacks; no payload. Initial Access T1190 Exploit Public-Facing Application Crafted SMTP request into SNMP notification processing, running as the zimbra account. Execution T1059.004 Command and Scripting Interpreter: Unix Shell perl to dash or bash; de.sh, agent2.sh, and aliyun_update.tar.gz piped into a shell. Execution T1105 Ingress Tool Transfer curl, wget, python3, python, perl, and /dev/tcp download fallbacks. Privilege Escalation T1068 Exploitation for Privilege Escalation GitHub LPE toolkit staged as .lpe_core in tmpfs; quarantined as Looptik. Persistence T1053.003 Scheduled Task/Job: Cron Crontab ‘* * * * *’ and ‘@reboot’ entries relaunching .kworker_sys. Persistence T1543.002 Create or Modify System Process: Systemd Service zimlog.service installed, enabled, assigned to the Zimbra account, and timestomped on one server; a separate payload installed chronyd-helper.service as a root service. Persistence T1505.003 Server Software Component: Web Shell Multiple JSP webshells deployed across Zimbra application paths and propagated to peer mailbox nodes to provide redundant HTTP-accessible command execution. Defense Evasion T1036.005 Masquerading: Match Legitimate Name or Location systemd-resolved, _chronyd, .kworker_sys, and a mail archive saved as .ico. Defense Evasion T1620 Reflective Code Loading XOR-decoded ELF run from memfd_create via /proc/self/fd. Discovery T1083 File and Directory Discovery Ten operator directory listings; droppers probing writable, executable staging paths. Command and Control T1071.001 Application Layer Protocol: Web Protocols WebSocket tasking at psk1zim[.]abrdns[.]com/agentws, with TLS and raw TCP fallbacks. Command and Control T1102.001 Web Service: Dead Drop Resolver Encrypted commands polled from a Base mainnet contract over public JSON-RPC. Collection T1560.001 Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility tar zcvf of the full Zimbra mail store, run twice. Collection T1074.001 Data Staged: Local Data Staging Archive written as five.ico into the public Zimbra web directory. Impact T1496 Resource Hijacking Miner staged as .kworker_sys; rival miners killed and pools sinkholed via /etc/hosts. Indicators of compromise Network indicators Indicator Type Role 117.107.25[.]243:7071 IPv4 (C2) Dropper C2, serving de.sh 192.255.193[.]111:9004 IPv4 (C2) Miner C2, serving the build_amd64 cryptominer staged as .kworker_sys transzimbra[.]linkpc[.]net Dynamic-DNS domain Dropper C2, serving agent.sh/agent2.sh/zimdown2 psk1zim[.]abrdns[.]com/agentws Dynamic-DNS domain zimclient2 WebSocket (port 80, /agentws) and raw TCP (8080) command channel tls[.]psk1zim[.]abrdns[.]com Domain (C2) zimclient2 TLS command channel (port 443) wslogzimbra[.]linkpc[.]net/wsstat WebSocket URL zimdown2 installer status reporting; separate from payload hosting mexico-cashpay-test.s3.dualstack.mx-central-1.amazonaws[.]com/pakistan/2026/aliyun_update.tar.gz S3-hosted URL Tarball dropper; confirmed executed on one host, retried elsewhere 45.32.30[.]235:8081 IPv4:port (C2) Reverse shell; earliest confirmed C2 in this campaign 45.32.30[.]235:8080 IPv4:port (C2) Same C2 IP, different port; interactive session + mail-store staging 193.42.40[.]135:443 IPv4:port (C2) Organization-wide reverse-shell/recon wave 3.209.137[.]175:443 IPv4:port (C2) Secondary C2, rotated-infrastructure event github[.]com/<redacted>/lpe-toolkit Public GitHub release Legitimate public tool repurposed as an attacker privilege-escalation payload 0x25bdA7Feb3553995AD68a9A8Ed8c731b73a71586 Base contract address Command channel for the memfd-executed stage; block on JSON-RPC bodies rather than the public RPC providers File hashes (SHA-256) Indicator Type Role dee5af1c0f76b45d28bafd6e60c07bb8e391d98addf81ef8f13d073acdb3c48a SHA-256 de.sh aea991f694911e321b0ab97534f2ad0291c392c0a43dabff664c563618bd036d SHA-256 build_amd64 6ab7de2509038edf580aef6229c1c3db17f4da8f2d7d940818faf617d1938244 SHA-256 agent2.sh bf28f38122bf20d5fac969cc414daa6a890cdea872d389ca93d2092b6b7773cf SHA-256 zimdown2 b594a42b8f1c6f090327bb9a3361c2d3515537fb7ac8da6b9061b9a3f330e159 SHA-256 Zimclient2 65A7576C389326B6CDF9C993D0BE6E5D50FED9655D1CDF2A3A50F2C21C8EC435 SHA-256 ‘Looptik’ hacktool (GitHub-hosted LPE toolkit) 22EF852F6EBC39EE71235B90648B4B200B385C47D25C79545986493F8C70DB69 SHA-256 Loader staged as ‘systemd-resolved’; installs /usr/sbin/_chronyd and decodes the in-memory stage 2 518FE65DD349180191D9B258AB24876AAED6613CD657D0B626D1FC24E03A22B6 SHA-256 Decoded in-memory stage 2; Base-chain command agent References NVD: CVE-2026-73570 Zimbra Security Advisories – Zimbra :: Tech Center Zimbra Releases/10.1.20 – Zimbra :: Tech Center CISA Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog: CVE-2026-73570 Learn More For the latest security research from the Microsoft Threat Intelligence community, check out the Microsoft Threat Intelligence Blog . To get notified about new publications and to join discussions on social media, follow us on LinkedIn , X (formerly Twitter) , and Bluesky . To hear stories and insights from the Microsoft Threat Intelligence community about the ever-evolving threat landscape, listen to the Microsoft Threat Intelligence podcast . Review our documentation to learn more about our real-time protection capabilities and see how to enable them within your organization. Learn more about securing Copilot Studio agents with Microsoft Defender Evaluate your AI readiness with our latest Zero Trust for AI workshop . Microsoft 365 Copilot AI security documentation How Microsoft discovers and mitigates evolving attacks against AI guardrails Prompt injection protection in Microsoft Defender for Office 365 – official documentation of the prompt injection protection in Microsoft Defender for Office 365. How Microsoft discovers and mitigates evolving attacks against AI guardrails | Microsoft Security Blog Manipulating AI memory for profit: The rise of AI Recommendation Poisoning | Microsoft Security Blog – a related example of an AI-era technique observed in email traffic Defending the inbox against prompt injection attacks | Microsoft Defender for Office 365 Blog – feature announcement introducing prompt injection protection in Microsoft Defender for Office 365. Learn how Microsoft is reimagining the SOC for the agentic era with ISOC in Microsoft Defender The post Unauthenticated command injection on internet-facing mail servers: tracking CVE-2026-73570 appeared first on Microsoft Security Blog .
CVEs: CVE-2026-73570
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2026/09/30/unauthenticated-command-injection-on-internet-facing-mail-servers-tracking-cve-2026-73570/

Vulnerability Discovery and Exploitation Trends in the AI Era
Google Threat Intelligence | Research / advisory | 2026-09-30T14:00:00+00:00
Written by: Robin Grunewald, Supriya Mazumdar, Kelli Vanderlee Introduction Google Threat Intelligence Group (GTIG) examines vulnerability disclosure and exploitation statistics to evaluate the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) on the vulnerability threat landscape. We found that AI is measurably changing not just the pace of vulnerability discovery and exploitation, but also the types and typical risk profiles of vulnerabilities that are being discovered. Key findings: Vulnerability disclosures doubled: the number of vulnerabilities disclosed per month doubled, rising from 5,045 in January 2026 to 10,477 in July and continuing to climb to 10,740 in August 2026. Vulnerability exploitation nearly doubled: the number of vulnerabilities exploited increased from an average of 10.5 per month in 2025 to an average of 18 per month from January 2026 to August 2026. Zero-day exploitation increased marginally: zero-day vulnerability exploitation grew from an average of 8 per month in 2025 to an average of 11 per month from January 2026 to August 2026. AI finds more consequential vulnerabilities: AI-assisted discovery found proportionally fewer Low-Risk vulnerabilities, more Moderate-Risk vulnerabilities, and more vulnerabilities leading to remote code execution (RCE). GTIG expects that vulnerability discovery and exploitation will continue to grow in the short to medium term. To counter the increased risk from rapid vulnerability discovery and exploitation, organizations must transition from unprioritized mass-patching to threat-intelligence-driven triage, combining targeted edge-defense with automated, agentic remediation. Scope & Methodology This GTIG analysis examines trends in vulnerabilities disclosed from January 1, 2025 through August 31, 2026. The dataset tracks the vulnerabilities alongside critical operational dimensions, including exploitation consequences and GTIG Vulnerability Risk Ratings , and in-the-wild exploitation. When we refer to risk ratings in this blog, we are using GTIG vulnerability risk ratings, not CVSS severity . While the baseline monitoring encompasses the full 20-month window (January 2025–August 2026), this report specifically focuses on growth velocity and emerging threat vectors. The research seeks to evaluate the impact of AI across the cybersecurity landscape both in terms of rates of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) disclosure and rates of exploitation. We also examine vulnerabilities targeting the AI/large language model (LLM) operational stack. CVE Disclosure Doubled in 2026 Vulnerability disclosures doubled from 5,045 in January 2026 to 10,477 in July, with the count of disclosed vulnerabilities reaching a peak of 10,740 in August (Figure 1). Distinguishing Threat Risk from CVE Inflation However, raw disclosure volume throughout 2026 can be misleading without threat intelligence context. Automated CVE Numbering Authority (CNA) assignment policies across open-source ecosystems can inflate baseline figures; for instance, vulnerabilities with a description containing “Linux Kernel” alone generated approximately 5,000 CVEs between January 2026 and August 2026 with zero observed exploited in-the-wild zero-days. Figure 1: Count of vulnerabilities disclosed, January 2025 - August 2026 (Source: GTIG) In terms of risk ratings, the most interesting increase occurred in High-Risk vulnerabilities, which surged from 131 disclosures in January 2026 to 350 in August 2026, a 167% growth (Figure 2). High-Risk vulnerabilities remain a small proportion (3% in August 2026) of all vulnerabilities disclosed. Figure 2: Count of vulnerabilities disclosed by GTIG vulnerability risk rating, January 2025 - August 2026 (Source: GTIG) The increase in High-Risk vulnerabilities throughout 2026 was driven by two compounding dynamics: a widening pool of affected vendors and concentrated vendor disclosure cycles. Across the broader software ecosystem, baseline High-Risk disclosures more than doubled over the past year, rising from ~65/month in mid-2025 to ~135/month in mid-2026 (Figure 3). On top of this elevated baseline, Figure 3 highlights two time frames in which particular vendors reported exceptionally high quantities of CVEs, pushing monthly volumes to historic peaks: TOTOLINK: In April and May, mass research disclosures against consumer router firmware added 75 High-Risk flaws, driving the mid-year spike in Command Execution vulnerabilities. Oracle & Linux: In June, July, and August Oracle’s quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU) across middleware like WebLogic and Coherence combined with Linux kernel network driver advisories to contribute 128 High-Risk vulnerabilities in August alone (nearly 37% of all High-Risk disclosures), directly fueling growth in Remote Code Execution vulnerabilities. Figure 3: Count of vulnerabilities High Risk disclosed by Vendor, January 2025 to August 2026 (Source: GTIG) In-the-Wild Exploitation From January 2026 to August 2026, GTIG recorded 141 distinct vulnerabilities disclosed and exploited, surpassing the total number of vulnerabilities exploited for the full year of 2025 (127). In-the-wild exploitation increased from an average of 10.5 per month in 2025 to 18 per month in 2026. However, it is important to note that the proportion of vulnerabilities exploited versus disclosed remains vanishingly small: only 0.23% of all disclosed vulnerabilities in 2026 (roughly 1 in 431) were ever observed in active exploitation, or on the order of tens versus thousands per month. This means that monthly exploitation counts can more easily be influenced by other factors such as vendor disclosure cycles and threat actor campaign spikes. Since May 2026, a shift has emerged, with the expansion of CVE exploitation (+127% indexed growth) closely mirroring disclosure growth (+128% indexed growth), scaling in tandem with the overall vulnerability landscape rather than outpacing it. Figure 4: Count of all vulnerabilities exploited, by n-days and zero-days, January 2025 to August 2026 (Source: GTIG) Zero-Day Exploitation Remains Stable The count of zero-days exploited increased marginally from an average of 8 per month in 2025 to an average of 11 per month in 2026. While the number of zero-days identified per month remained near baseline levels (between 8 and 12) through mid-2026, in August, the count jumped to 22 (Figure 4). Zero-day exploitation also continues to represent a very small proportion of all vulnerabilities disclosed, though it still constitutes the majority (62%) of all observed exploited vulnerabilities from January 2026 to August 2026. Are Threat Actors Finding More Success with Exploiting N-Days? It is possible that threat actors are finding it more accessible or efficient to use LLMs and AI tools to automate analysis of differences between product versions, patches, vulnerability disclosure announcements, and Proof-of-Concept (POC) code to rapidly weaponize n-days, rather than to discover new zero-days. CVE Exploitation Trends Toward Higher Risk Vulnerabilities With zero-day exploitation rates increasing only marginally, we suggest that the primary source of growth in vulnerability exploitation from January 2026 to August 2026 has been concentrated in the rapid weaponization of n-days. Significantly, exploitation of High-Risk vulnerabilities more than doubled from 28 in 2025 to 75 from January 2026 to August 2026. Figure 5: Count of vulnerabilities exploited in the wild by GTIG vulnerability risk rating, January 2025 - August 2026 (Source: GTIG) Exploitation by Attack Surface Vulnerabilities affecting Edge and Security Appliances represented 14% of vulnerabilities exploited from January 2026 to August 2026, while 11% affected Enterprise Directory & Collaboration hubs. Edge gateways represent a premier initial-access vector: over 65% of edge flaws exploited from January 2026 to August 2026 met High/Critical Threat Risk ratings, with adversaries aggressively targeting unauthenticated public management interfaces to capitalize on enterprise EDR agent blind spots. While CVE discovery volume metrics surge, adversary exploitation activity remains concentrated in perimeter appliances and exposed enterprise services. Comparing Growth Rates For Specified Categories Plotting raw monthly counts hides relative momentum due to the vast disparity between single-digit zero-day discoveries and more than 10,000 vulnerabilities disclosed in the month of August, for example. To enable a direct comparison of growth rates across vulnerability tiers, Figure 7 indexes four metrics to a baseline of 0 in January 2025 and provides a trendline of the three month rolling average growth rate: Overall CVE Disclosure (128%) : As previously stated, raw counts of CVE disclosures doubled from January 2026 to August 2026. The three month rolling average growth rate suggests that CVE disclosures have steadily accelerated in 2026. High-Risk Vulnerabilities Disclosed (241%) : Demonstrated the steepest growth across the dataset, climbing to almost a 3.5x its initial baseline (a +241% increase) by August 2026. Excluding Linux, Oracle, and Totolink, the rate of increase was just 128% from January 2025 to August 2026. CVE Exploitation in the Wild (127%) : From January to August 2026, CVE exploitation has increased at approximately the same rate as overall CVE disclosure, though the three month rolling average trendline suggests that growth in exploitation did not begin to pick up until the second quarter of 2026. Zero-Days Exploited (59%) : While remaining near baseline levels (between 8 and 12 zero-days per month) through mid-2026, in August, the count reached 22. This increase is reflected in the three month rolling average growth rate, which began to reveal an upward trend in the summer of 2026. This clear visual divergence underscores that the moderate increase in vulnerability exploitation in 2026 is driven by the rapid, targeted weaponization of high-risk exploits in the wild vulnerabilities rather than a flood of new zero-days. Figure 6: 3 Month Rolling Average of % Growth, Indexed to 0% at January 2025 (Source: GTIG) AI as the Hunter: AI-Assisted Vulnerability Discovery Detection Methodology & Attribution Realities Current public data significantly undercount vulnerabilities discovered by AI due to two structural dynamics: Absence of Standardized Metadata : Public CVE repositories do not yet feature uniform metadata tags for AI attribution, requiring manual heuristic tracking. Silent First-Party & Cloud Patching : Major cloud and SaaS providers routinely remediate AI-surfaced vulnerabilities directly in production without requesting formal CVE IDs, as CVE assignments are typically reserved for on-premise or third-party software requiring customer patching coordination. Many findings also remain embargoed for a period during established Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (CVD) windows. However, we can identify vulnerabilities likely surfaced by autonomous agents using a multi-tier verification process: Verified Lab & Vendor Ledgers : Directly ingesting confirmed disclosures from frontier AI research programs. Advisory & Release Parsing: Programmatically monitoring Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) advisories, MITRE records, and vendor security bulletins for explicit acknowledgments attributing root-cause discovery or PoC synthesis to autonomous AI agents (e.g., Hacktron AI, AISLE). Risk Profile Divergence: AI vs. Conventional Discovery Analyzing disclosed vulnerabilities we were able to identify as likely AI discovered suggests a structural divergence from conventional human and scanner discoveries. AI agents have been used to surface proportionally fewer Low-Risk vulnerabilities, and proportionally more Medium- and High-Risk vulnerabilities. GTIG CVE Risk Rating CVE Not Discovered by AI CVE DIscovered by AI Low 69% 39% Medium 28% 58% High 3% 4% Table 1: Share of vulnerabilities per risk rating - AI vs. Non AI discovery - Jan to August 2026 (Source: GTIG) Conventional CVE disclosures are dominated by low-severity findings (69% Low Threat Risk, 28% Medium). In contrast, AI-discovered vulnerabilities invert this distribution: 58% qualify for Medium Threat Risk (more than double the baseline), while low-risk findings drop to 39%. This distribution largely likely reflects how research programs scope and deploy these systems. Rather than running broad, automated scans for cosmetic flaws or compliance warnings, researchers deliberately prompt and task autonomous agents with auditing critical infrastructure and sensitive privilege boundaries, focusing on high-impact findings. Mandiant has described similar findings when using a specialized Agentic Vulnerability Discovery Harness (AVDH) in point-in-time assessments of client codebases. Figure 7: Share of vulnerabilities per exploitation consequence - AI vs. Non AI discovery (Source: GTIG) Divergence between AI-discovered vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities not discovered by AI is also apparent in terms of exploitation consequences. Exactly 50% of all AI-discovered vulnerabilities result in Remote Code Execution (RCE), compared to just 26% across the broader CVE ecosystem. Conversely, AI agents under-index in lower-impact categories, surfacing less than half the rate of Information Disclosure (8% vs. 18%) and Data Manipulation (5% vs. 9%) as vulnerabilities not identified as discovered by AI. This concentration on code execution likely stems from how frontier agents operate. Autonomous systems are engineered to navigate complex, multi-step semantic code paths across core C/C++ libraries, runtimes, and hypervisors. By synthesizing fuzzing harnesses, modeling memory states, and chaining obscure edge-case logic, AI models excel at identifying memory corruption (buffer overflows, use-after-free) and logic bypasses that consistently elude traditional static analyzers . While currently an early indicator rather than an established trend, confirmed exploitation of AI-discovered vulnerabilities demonstrates that increased risk from AI-discovered flaws is not purely theoretical. A notable case is CVE-2026-1731 , an unauthenticated OS command injection flaw in BeyondTrust Privileged Remote Access (PRA) and Remote Support that was discovered autonomously by a third-party research agent (Hacktron AI). Following public disclosure, GTIG observed threat actors weaponize this vulnerability in targeted initial-access campaigns to bypass enterprise perimeters. More specifically, within four days of public disclosure, GTIG observed a threat cluster exploiting this vulnerability, followed by five additional threat clusters within seven days of public disclosure. GTIG observed these threat actors collectively conduct a variety of post-exploitation activities, including privilege escalation, data exfiltration, and dropping secondary payloads including SNOWLIGHT, SPARKRAT, and cryptominers. This operational collision highlights that defensive AI agents are uncovering high-impact vulnerabilities that threat actors actively seek to exploit. AI as the Hunted: Vulnerabilities Targeting the AI/LLM Operational Stack Architectural Breakdown of AI Stack Vulnerabilities As enterprise adoption of generative AI accelerates, security research and adversary interest have also focused on vulnerabilities in the underlying AI operational stack. Across the January 2025–August 2026 monitoring window, GTIG tracked 2,076 cumulative AI-related CVE disclosures, with over 1,500 vulnerabilities identified from January 2026 to August 2026 alone across eight core architectural layers: Layer / Architectural Category Key Technologies & Frameworks Primary Vulnerability Vectors 2026 AI Orchestration & Agent Frameworks Flowise, Langflow, LangChain, Dify, LlamaIndex, AutoGen, CrewAI, Semantic Kernel, Letta, MCP, Pydantic-AI Arbitrary Code Execution (RCE) & Command Injection via untrusted workflow serialization, insecure Python tool calling, and Server-Side Template Injection (SSTI). 782 AI Web Apps & Portals Open-WebUI, AnythingLLM, FastGPT, LibreChat, RAGFlow, Gradio, Streamlit, LobeChat, Chainlit, GPT4All Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) via chat proxying, Stored XSS in markdown rendering, and local file inclusion (LFI) via document upload handlers. 230 Inference & Serving Infrastructure vLLM, Ollama, LiteLLM, Llama.cpp, Triton (NVIDIA), Ray, TGI, SGLang, TensorRT-LLM, BentoML, LocalAI Unauthenticated Administrative APIs, model checkpoint deserialization, memory corruption in tensor backends, and multi-tenant resource exhaustion. 212 Model Security Advisories Foundation Model Weights, System Prompts, Guardrails, Evaluators (Garak, Lakera, Promptfoo) Direct & Indirect Prompt Injection, system prompt exfiltration, guardrail bypasses, training data poisoning, and excessive agent autonomy. 106 ML Frameworks & Hubs PyTorch, Hugging Face (Hub/Datasets), Transformers, ONNX Runtime, TensorFlow, Diffusers, DeepSpeed, Safetensors, Keras Memory safety violations (heap overflows, out-of-bounds reads in C++ tensor operators) and arbitrary file overwrites via malicious model/dataset archive extraction. 99 Frontier Models Anthropic, Gemini, OpenAI Arbitrary Code Execution (RCE) and Command Injection via unvalidated CLI shell interpolation and implicit execution of untrusted workspace configs, Sandbox Escape via Git worktree directory confusion and memory tool symlink traversal; and Covert Data Exfiltration via indirect prompt injection-induced Markdown image rendering and permissive network fetch allowlists. 97 MLOps & Experiment Tracking MLflow, ClearML, Weights & Biases (W&B), Kubeflow, Langfuse, Langsmith, Arize, Phoenix, Helicone Arbitrary File Overwrites (LFI/RFI), unauthenticated remote tracking server takeovers, and artifact deletion in shared experiment registries. 39 Vector Databases & Search Milvus, Qdrant, ChromaDB, Weaviate, Pinecone, FAISS, LanceDB, PGVector, Marqo, Vespa Unauthenticated collection manipulation, Remote Code Execution via clustering/indexing plugins, and metadata SQL/JSON query injection. 19 Table 2: Break down of vulnerabilities targeting AI systems (Source: GTIG) Emerging Battlegrounds: Orchestration & Inference From January 2026 through August 2026, disclosures of AI application vulnerabilities were heavily concentrated in three core areas: agent orchestration frameworks, backend serving infrastructure, and enterprise AI gateways: Agent Orchestration as the Primary Chokepoint : Orchestration middleware accounts for 50% of all AI-related flaws, experiencing a +347% surge in disclosures in 2026. Visual workflow builders (e.g., Flowise, Langflow) and autonomous frameworks often deploy dynamic code execution nodes to facilitate environment interaction. Attackers exploit these nodes via prompt injection or crafted workflow JSONs to hijack execution loops, turning natural language prompts into unauthenticated Remote Code Execution. Centralized AI Gateways and Lateral Cloud Movement : Enterprise AI gateways represent a catastrophic dual-threat vector. At the application layer, compromised gateways expose third-party application programming interface (API) keys and private prompt streams containing personally identifiable information (PII) or proprietary source code. At the infrastructure layer, they act as initial footholds for adversaries to harvest database credentials and pivot laterally into internal cloud environments. Inference Gateways as the New Perimeter : Disclosures across backend serving infrastructure (e.g., vLLM, Triton, LiteLLM, Ollama) reached 212 vulnerabilities in 2026. Nearly a quarter (24%) of these flaws stem directly from unauthenticated API endpoints or Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF), providing remote adversaries with direct entry points to bypass perimeter firewalls, exhaust expensive GPU compute resources, or extract proprietary model checkpoints. Active In-the-Wild Exploitation of AI Middleware While zero-day exploitation of AI infrastructure has not yet been observed, threat actors are actively weaponizing newly disclosed vulnerabilities in exposed middleware. However, out of 2,076 cumulative disclosures, only a handful of vulnerabilities have been confirmed as exploited in-the-wild. Among the examples, we identified several that we rated High Threat Risk and provide unauthenticated RCE, command injection, or arbitrary file writes: CVE-2026-42271 (BerriAI LiteLLM) : Command injection in Model Context Protocol (MCP) server preview endpoints ( POST /mcp-rest/test/connection ), resulting in host takeover and API credential theft. CVE-2026-5027 (Langflow) : Path traversal file write in the POST /api/v2/files upload handler, allowing remote threat actors to drop unauthorized files (e.g., cron jobs, Secure Shell (SSH) keys) onto the host. CVE-2025-3248 (Langflow) : Unauthenticated Python code injection via exec() in /api/v1/validate/code , permitting immediate RCE. Outlook GTIG expects that rates of vulnerability discovery and exploitation are likely to continue to increase in the short to medium term. In other research, such as our May AI Threat Tracker , we reported the first known case of a threat actor in possession of a zero-day exploit script developed with generative AI. While intercepted during operational planning before in-the-wild execution, analysis of the exploit's structural artifacts revealed high-confidence LLM generation markers. In our September AI Threat Tracker , we further noted threat actors sharing resources and prototyping agentic vulnerability discovery tooling. We are still in the early days of publicly available data on both AI-augmented vulnerability discovery and vulnerabilities targeting AI infrastructure and technologies. Nonetheless, we can see emerging signals that AI is contributing to vulnerability discovery. When directed at critical attack surfaces, autonomous research agents demonstrate a formidable capacity to uncover high-severity flaws. By reasoning through complex semantic code paths and synthesizing dynamic proof harnesses, agentic workflows excel at identifying memory corruption and logic bypasses in core libraries and runtimes, surfacing the exact types of flaws that sophisticated adversaries actively seek to exploit. As threat actors begin to exploit vulnerabilities in AI systems in the wild, organizations cannot afford to treat AI security as an afterthought. Securing this landscape demands immediate containment strategies, sandboxing autonomous agentic workloads, and implementing risk-based vulnerability management to defend the new perimeter. At this moment, the cybersecurity community has a window of opportunity to bolster defenses on two fronts before threat actors are able to scale up zero-day and n-day exploitation. First, organizations must modernize how they triage and remediate disclosed vulnerabilities. In a separate blog post , Mandiant laid out a blueprint for implementing AI-Assisted Vulnerability Management to help defenders counter compressed adversary timelines. Second, organizations that provide software or services to other enterprises and consumers, should proactively run AI-enhanced code review internally to identify and fix flaws before they are shipped to production and become exploitable vulnerabilities. Leveraging agentic defensive capabilities, such as CodeMender , integrated into Google AI Threat Defense , to continuously audit and patch code across developer workflows will be vital. If pre-release AI code review becomes standard best practice, the rate of growth in public vulnerability disclosures could eventually slow.
CVEs: CVE-2025-3248, CVE-2026-1731, CVE-2026-42271, CVE-2026-5027
https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/threat-intelligence/vulnerability-discovery-and-exploitation-trends-in-the-ai-era/

Threat Brief: NetScaler Zero Days CVE-2026-88771 and CVE-2026-88772 Exploited in the Wild (Updated September 30)
Unit 42 | Research / advisory | 2026-09-30T20:00:04+00:00
Unit 42 is aware of possible 0-day activity against NetScaler devices. Citrix reports CVE-2026-88771, CVE-2026-88772 have been exploited in the wild. The post Threat Brief: NetScaler Zero Days CVE-2026-88771 and CVE-2026-88772 Exploited in the Wild (Updated September 30) appeared first on Unit 42 .
CVEs: CVE-2026-88771, CVE-2026-88772
https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/netscaler-zero-days-exploited/

Microsoft enables Windows settings backup by default for orgs
BleepingComputer | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T11:14:28+00:00
Microsoft announced that Windows settings backup and restore is now enabled by default on all Microsoft Entra-joined or Microsoft Entra hybrid-joined enterprise systems upgraded to Windows 11 26H2. [...]
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/microsoft-enables-windows-settings-backup-by-default-for-orgs/

Hackers stole Pentagon personnel records of over 3 million people
BleepingComputer | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T09:44:28+00:00
The Pentagon's Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) is notifying millions of military service members that hackers stole their data after breaching the Pentagon's human resources management system in October 2025. [...]
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/hackers-breach-pentagon-human-resources-management-system-steal-data-of-nearly-3-million-people/

Metamask discloses security incident affecting its infrastructure
BleepingComputer | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T07:33:57+00:00
On Thursday, cryptocurrency wallet provider MetaMask has disclosed an ongoing infrastructure security incident affecting some of its infrastructure. [...]
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/metamask-discloses-security-incident-affecting-its-infrastructure/

Russian state hackers use new RedFlick technique to push malware
BleepingComputer | Research / advisory | 2026-09-30T20:34:01+00:00
The Russian state actor Star Blizzard has been using a new malware installation tactic dubbed "RedFlick" to deploy its signature CosmicPulse backdoor. [...]
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/russian-state-hackers-use-new-redflick-technique-to-push-malware/

DIVD says Zammad zero-days enabled AI-driven network breach
BleepingComputer | Research / advisory | 2026-09-30T19:49:15+00:00
The Dutch Institute for Vulnerability Disclosure (DIVD) says that the breach of its network was possible by exploiting a chain of two zero-day vulnerabilities in the open-source Zammad ticketing system. [...]
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/divd-says-zammad-zero-days-enabled-ai-driven-network-breach/

AI Has Changed Attack Speed, Not Security Fundamentals
SecurityWeek | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T13:15:00+00:00
As AI accelerates vulnerability discovery and exploitation, so-called virtual patching still comes down to defense-in-depth and strong application security fundamentals. The post AI Has Changed Attack Speed, Not Security Fundamentals appeared first on SecurityWeek .
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.securityweek.com/ai-has-changed-attack-speed-not-security-fundamentals/

Zimbra Vulnerability Exploited in the Wild Prior to Public Disclosure
SecurityWeek | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T12:55:57+00:00
Under certain conditions, CVE-2026-73570 can be exploited via specially crafted emails without user interaction. The post Zimbra Vulnerability Exploited in the Wild Prior to Public Disclosure appeared first on SecurityWeek .
CVEs: CVE-2026-73570
https://www.securityweek.com/zimbra-vulnerability-exploited-in-the-wild-prior-to-public-disclosure/

Kevin Mandia’s Armadin Raises $255 Million at $2.5 Billion Valuation
SecurityWeek | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T11:40:51+00:00
The Series B brings the AI-powered offensive security startup’s total funding to roughly $445 million only seven months after its public launch. The post Kevin Mandia’s Armadin Raises $255 Million at $2.5 Billion Valuation appeared first on SecurityWeek .
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.securityweek.com/kevin-mandias-armadin-raises-255-million-at-2-5-billion-valuation/

Treasury Blacklists Most-Wanted ATM Malware Developer and His Network
SecurityWeek | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T10:51:39+00:00
The US government continues its crackdown on Tren de Aragua over its ATM jackpotting scheme. The post Treasury Blacklists Most-Wanted ATM Malware Developer and His Network appeared first on SecurityWeek .
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.securityweek.com/treasury-blacklists-most-wanted-atm-malware-developer-and-his-network/

Zammad Zero-Days Exploited in AI-Powered DIVD Hack
SecurityWeek | Research / advisory | 2026-10-01T10:42:49+00:00
The flaws were chained to hijack sessions, achieve remote code execution, and elevate privileges to root. The post Zammad Zero-Days Exploited in AI-Powered DIVD Hack appeared first on SecurityWeek .
CVEs: Not stated in feed
https://www.securityweek.com/zammad-zero-days-exploited-in-ai-powered-divd-hack/

SOURCE COVERAGE
CISA KEV: OK; recent=1; shown=1; undated excluded=0
MalwareBazaar: NOT CONFIGURED: MALWAREBAZAAR_AUTH_KEY required; recent=0; shown=0; undated excluded=0
SANS Internet Storm Center: OK; recent=2; shown=2; undated excluded=0
Cisco Talos: OK; recent=1; shown=1; undated excluded=0
Microsoft Security: OK; recent=2; shown=2; undated excluded=0
Google Threat Intelligence: OK; recent=1; shown=1; undated excluded=0
Unit 42: OK; recent=1; shown=1; undated excluded=0
Securelist: OK; recent=0; shown=0; undated excluded=0
ESET WeLiveSecurity: OK; recent=0; shown=0; undated excluded=0
Sophos: FAILED: TimeoutError; recent=0; shown=0; undated excluded=0
BleepingComputer: OK; recent=10; shown=5; undated excluded=0
SecurityWeek: OK; recent=10; shown=5; undated excluded=0